README.md, before:

# Building RAG and Agentic Applications with LangChain/LangGraph 1.0 and Haystack 2.0

<a href="https://www.packtpub.com/en-us/product/building-natural-language-pipelines-9781835467008"><img src="https://content.packt.com/_/image/xxlarge/B21806/cover_image_large.jpg" alt="<Book Name>" height="256px" align="right"></a>

This is the code repository for [Building Natural Language Pipelines](https://www.packtpub.com/en-us/product/building-natural-language-pipelines-9781835467008), published by Packt.

Author: Laura Funderburk

## Table of Contents

- [What You'll Learn to Build](#what-youll-learn-to-build)
- [Setting Up](#setting-up)
- [Chapter Breakdown](#chapter-breakdown)
  - [Chapter 2: Diving Deep into Large Language Models](#chapter-2-diving-deep-into-large-language-models)
  - [Chapter 3: Introduction to Haystack](#chapter-3-introduction-to-haystack)
  - [Chapter 4: Bringing components together: Haystack pipelines for different use cases](#chapter-4-bringing-components-together-haystack-pipelines-for-different-use-cases)
  - [Chapter 5: Haystack pipeline development with custom components](#chapter-5-haystack-pipeline-development-with-custom-components)
  - [Chapter 6: Setting up a reproducible project: naive vs hybrid RAG with reranking and evaluation](#chapter-6-setting-up-a-reproducible-project-naive-vs-hybrid-rag-with-reranking-and-evaluation)
  - [Chapter 7: Production deployment strategies](#chapter-7-production-deployment-strategies)
  - [Chapter 8: Hands-on projects](#chapter-8-hands-on-projects)
  - [Chapter 9: Future trends and beyond](#chapter-9-future-trends-and-beyond)


## What You'll Learn to Build

This book guides you through building advanced **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** systems and **multi-agent applications** using the [Haystack 2.0](https://haystack.deepset.ai/), [Ragas](https://docs.ragas.io/en/stable/) and [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) frameworks. Beginning with **state-based agent development** using LangGraph, you'll learn to build intelligent agents with tool integration, middleware patterns, and multi-agent coordination. You'll then master **Haystack's component architecture**, progressing through creating intelligent search systems with semantic and hybrid retrieval, building custom components for specialized tasks, and implementing comprehensive evaluation frameworks. The journey advances through production deployment strategies with Docker and REST APIs, culminating in hands-on projects including named entity recognition systems, zero-shot text classification pipelines, sentiment analysis tools, and sophisticated multi-agent orchestration systems that coordinate multiple specialized Haystack pipelines through supervisor-worker patterns with LangGraph.

<strong>Chapter 2: Single agents and multi agents with LangChain and LangGraph</strong>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Agent with one tool | Agent calling supervisor | 
| ![](./ch2/jupyter-notebooks/images/mathagent.png) | ![](./ch2/jupyter-notebooks/images/supervisortools.png)|


<details>
<summary><strong>Chapter 3: Building robust agent tools with Haystack</strong></summary>

| | |
|-|-|
| Supercomponents and pipeline | Prompt template pipeline| 
| ![](./ch3/jupyter-notebooks/images/full_pipeline_with_supercomponent.png) | ![](./ch3/jupyter-notebooks/images/prompt_pipeline.png) | 

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Chapter 4: RAG pipelines: indexing and retrieval</strong></summary>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Indexing pipeline | Hybrid RAG pipeline| 
|![](./ch4/jupyter-notebooks/images/indexing_pipeline.png) | ![](./ch4/jupyter-notebooks/images/hybrid_rag_pipeline.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Chapter 5: Build custom components: synthetic data generation with Ragas</strong></summary>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Knowledge graph and synthetic data generation (SDG) pipeline | SDG applied to websites and PDFS |
|![](./ch5/jupyter-notebooks/images/web_knowledge_graph_pipeline.png) | ![](./ch5/jupyter-notebooks/images/advanced_branching_kg_pipeline.png)

</details>


<strong>Chapter 6: Reproducible evaluation of hybrid and naive RAG with Ragas and Weights and Biases</strong>


<strong>Chapter 7: Deploy pipelines as an API with FastAPI and Hayhooks</strong>


<strong>Chapter 8 and Optional Advanced Modules: Capstone and Agentic Patterns for Production<strong>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Microservice architecture| Multi-agent system using microservices|
| ![](./microservicearchitecture.png) | ![](./agentarchitecture.png)|

> **📝 Sovereign-Friendly & Local Execution**: The majority of exercises throughout this book are written so you can choose between **OpenAI APIs** or **local models via Ollama** (such as [Mistral Nemo](https://ollama.com/library/mistral-nemo), [GPT-OSS](https://ollama.com/library/gpt-oss), or [Deepseek-R1](https://ollama.com/library/deepseek-r1) and [Qwen3](https://ollama.com/library/qwen3)), with the exception of the cost tracking exercises in Chapter 6 which specifically demonstrate OpenAI API usage monitoring. Each notebook provides specific model recommendations to help you choose the most suitable option for that particular exercise. The frameworks explored are extensible and models from other providers can be used to substitute OpenAI or local models. No US cloud, external APIs, or proprietary services are required for the majority of the book, making it easy to run in EU-regulated or air-gapped environments. Chapter 9 includes optional visualizations using LangSmith Studio. These require a free API key, but all exercises can also be run entirely locally and you can disable the tracer `export LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2="false"`. Scripts are provided so you can run the agent on your terminal - you simply won’t see the studio traces or visualize the agent if you choose not to use LangSmith studio.

## Setting up

Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Building-Natural-Language-Pipelines.git

cd Building-Natural-Language-Pipelines/

```

Each chapter contains a `pyproject.toml` file with the folder's dependencies. **(Recommended) Open each folder in a new VS Code window.**

1. **Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/):**
	```sh
	pip install uv
	```
2. **Change directories into the folder**
3. **Install dependencies:**
	```sh
	uv sync
	```
4. **Activate the virtual environment:**
	```sh
	source .venv/bin/activate
	```
5. **Select the virtual environment as the Jupyter kernel:**
	- Open any notebook.
	- Click the kernel picker (top right) and select the `.venv` environment.

---

## Chapter breakdown

### **[Chapter 2: Diving Deep into Large Language Models](./ch2/)**
**Agent Foundations & State Management**
- **LangGraph Fundamentals**: Understanding state-based agent frameworks and graph architecture
- **Building Simple Agents**: Creating agents with state management using MessagesState and reducers
- **Tool Integration**: Connecting agents with external tools (search APIs, databases, custom functions)
- **Multi-Agent Systems**: Designing and coordinating multiple specialized agents in workflows
- **Middleware Patterns**: Implementing logging, authentication, and monitoring layers for agent systems
- **Local vs Cloud LLMs**: Running agents with OpenAI APIs or locally with Ollama (Qwen2, Llama, Mistral)

### **[Chapter 3: Introduction to Haystack](./ch3/)**
**Core Concepts & Foundation**
- **Component Architecture**: Understanding Haystack's modular design patterns
- **Pipeline Construction**: Building linear and branching data flow pipelines  
- **Document Processing**: Text extraction, cleaning, and preprocessing workflows
- **Prompting LLMs**: Learn to build prompt templates and guide how an LLM responds
- **Package pipelines as Supercomponents**: Abstract a pipeline as a Haystack component

### **[Chapter 4: Bringing components together: Haystack pipelines for different use cases](./ch4/)**
**Scaling & Optimization**
- **Indexing Pipelines**: Automated document ingestion and preprocessing workflows
- **Naive RAG**: Semantic search using sentence transformers and embedding models
- **Hybrid RAG**: Combining keyword (BM25) and semantic (vector) search strategies
- **Reranking**: Advanced retrieval techniques using ranker models
- **Pipelines as tools for an Agent**: Package advanced RAG as a tool for an autonomous Agent

### **[Chapter 5: Haystack pipeline development with custom components](./ch5/)**
**Extensibility & Testing**
- **Component SDK**: Creating custom Haystack components with proper interfaces
- **Knowledge Graph Integration**: Building components for structured knowledge representation
- **Synthetic Data Generation**: Automated test data creation for pipeline validation
- **Quality Control Systems**: Implementing automated evaluation and monitoring components
- **Unit Testing Frameworks**: Comprehensive testing strategies for custom components

### **[Chapter 6: Setting up a reproducible project: naive vs hybrid RAG with reranking and evaluation](./ch6/)**
**Reproducible Workflows & Evaluation**
- **Reproducible Workflow Building Blocks**: Setting up consistent environments with Docker, Elasticsearch, and dependency management
- **Naive RAG Implementation**: Building basic retrieval-augmented generation with semantic search
- **Hybrid RAG with Reranking**: Advanced retrieval combining keyword (BM25) and semantic search with rank fusion strategies
- **Evaluation with RAGAS**: Using the RAGAS framework to assess and compare naive vs hybrid RAG system quality across multiple dimensions
- **Observability with Weights and Biases**: Implementing monitoring and tracking for RAG system performance comparison and experiment management
- **Performance Optimization through Feedback Loops**: Creating iterative improvement cycles using evaluation results to enhance retrieval and generation performance

### **Chapter 7: Production deployment strategies**
**Deployment & Scaling**

#### **[Deploying a Retriever Pipeline as FastAPI App](./ch7/)**
- **FastAPI REST API**: Building production-ready APIs with clean documentation and error handling
- **Docker Containerization**: Full containerization with Docker Compose for scalable deployments
- **Elasticsearch Integration**: Production-grade document storage and hybrid search capabilities
- **Local Development Workflows**: Script-based development environment setup and testing

#### **[Deploying Multiple Pipelines with Hayhooks](./ch7-hayhooks/)**
- **Hayhooks Framework**: Multi-pipeline deployment using Haystack's native REST API framework
- **Pipeline Orchestration**: Managing multiple RAG pipelines (indexing + querying) as microservices
- **Service Discovery**: Automated API endpoint generation and pipeline management

### **[Chapter 8: Hands-on projects](./ch8/)**
**Real-World Applications & Multi-Agent Systems**

Hands-on projects that progress from beginner to advanced complexity, focusing on Named Entity Recognition, Text Classification, and Multi-Agent Systems. Projects includes complete notebooks with custom component definition, pipeline definition, and pipeline serialization.

#### **[Named Entity Recognition (NER) - Beginner](./ch8/named-entity-recognition/)**
- **Haystack Pipeline Fundamentals**: Building basic pipelines for entity extraction workflows
- **Pre-trained NER Models**: Using transformer models to identify people, organizations, and locations
- **Custom Component Creation**: Developing reusable components for text processing
- **Web Content Processing**: Building pipelines that extract entities from web search results
- **SuperComponents and Agents**: Wrapping pipelines as tools and building agents for natural language interaction

#### **[Text Classification & Sentiment Analysis - Intermediate](./ch8/text-classification/)**
- **Zero-Shot Classification**: Categorizing content without training data using LLMs
- **External API Integration**: Connecting Haystack pipelines with the Yelp API
- **Model Performance Evaluation**: Assessing classification accuracy on labeled datasets
- **Sentiment Analysis Pipelines**: Building custom components for analyzing review sentiment
- **Haystack Agent Mini Project**: Hands-on exercise combining NER and classification pipelines with agent orchestration and Hayhooks deployment

#### **[Yelp Navigator - Multi-Agent System - Advanced](./ch8/yelp-navigator/)**
- **Pipeline Chaining**: Connecting multiple specialized Haystack pipelines into complex workflows
- **Hayhooks Deployment**: Deploying pipelines as REST API endpoints for agent consumption
- **LangGraph Multi-Agent Orchestration**: Building intelligent supervisor systems that coordinate specialized agents
- **Modular Pipeline Architecture**: Creating 4 specialized pipelines (business search, details, sentiment, reporting)
- **Ambiguous Input Handling**: Using NER and intelligent routing to process natural language queries
- **Distributed Data Aggregation**: Generating comprehensive reports from multiple data sources

### **[Optional - advanced](./epilogue-advanced/)**
**Advanced LangGraph Supervisor Patterns for Production**
This folder contains an extended, production-grade implementation of the agentic supervisor described in Chapter 8.

- **Three Agent Architectures**: Progressive implementations from learning (V1 monolithic) to production-ready (V3 with checkpointing)
- **State Management Patterns**: Understanding how architectural decisions impact token usage and cost (16-50% reduction)
- **Monolithic vs Supervisor Patterns**: Comparing design approaches with automated token measurement tools
- **Production Features**: Error handling with retry policies, conversation persistence with checkpointing, and graceful degradation
- **Guardrails**: Input validation with prompt injection detection and PII sanitization for secure agent interactions
- **Checkpointing Systems**: Thread-based session management with both in-memory (development) and SQLite (production) persistence options

Commit message:

Update README with LangGraph multi-agent implementation info
Added information about the optional prototype-to-production multi-agent implementation using LangGraph and LangSmith Studio in the [epilogue-advanced] folder. Clarifies requirements for LangSmith Studio API key and local execution options.

README.md, after:

# Building RAG and Agentic Applications with LangChain/LangGraph 1.0 and Haystack 2.0

<a href="https://www.packtpub.com/en-us/product/building-natural-language-pipelines-9781835467008"><img src="https://content.packt.com/_/image/xxlarge/B21806/cover_image_large.jpg" alt="<Book Name>" height="256px" align="right"></a>

This is the code repository for [Building Natural Language Pipelines](https://www.packtpub.com/en-us/product/building-natural-language-pipelines-9781835467008), published by Packt.

Author: Laura Funderburk

## Table of Contents

- [What You'll Learn to Build](#what-youll-learn-to-build)
- [Setting Up](#setting-up)
- [Chapter Breakdown](#chapter-breakdown)
  - [Chapter 2: Diving Deep into Large Language Models](#chapter-2-diving-deep-into-large-language-models)
  - [Chapter 3: Introduction to Haystack](#chapter-3-introduction-to-haystack)
  - [Chapter 4: Bringing components together: Haystack pipelines for different use cases](#chapter-4-bringing-components-together-haystack-pipelines-for-different-use-cases)
  - [Chapter 5: Haystack pipeline development with custom components](#chapter-5-haystack-pipeline-development-with-custom-components)
  - [Chapter 6: Setting up a reproducible project: naive vs hybrid RAG with reranking and evaluation](#chapter-6-setting-up-a-reproducible-project-naive-vs-hybrid-rag-with-reranking-and-evaluation)
  - [Chapter 7: Production deployment strategies](#chapter-7-production-deployment-strategies)
  - [Chapter 8: Hands-on projects](#chapter-8-hands-on-projects)
  - [Chapter 9: Future trends and beyond](#chapter-9-future-trends-and-beyond)


## What You'll Learn to Build

This book guides you through building advanced **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** systems and **multi-agent applications** using the [Haystack 2.0](https://haystack.deepset.ai/), [Ragas](https://docs.ragas.io/en/stable/) and [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) frameworks. Beginning with **state-based agent development** using LangGraph, you'll learn to build intelligent agents with tool integration, middleware patterns, and multi-agent coordination. You'll then master **Haystack's component architecture**, progressing through creating intelligent search systems with semantic and hybrid retrieval, building custom components for specialized tasks, and implementing comprehensive evaluation frameworks. The journey advances through production deployment strategies with Docker and REST APIs, culminating in hands-on projects including named entity recognition systems, zero-shot text classification pipelines, sentiment analysis tools, and sophisticated multi-agent orchestration systems that coordinate multiple specialized Haystack pipelines through supervisor-worker patterns with LangGraph.

<strong>Chapter 2: Single agents and multi agents with LangChain and LangGraph</strong>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Agent with one tool | Agent calling supervisor | 
| ![](./ch2/jupyter-notebooks/images/mathagent.png) | ![](./ch2/jupyter-notebooks/images/supervisortools.png)|


<details>
<summary><strong>Chapter 3: Building robust agent tools with Haystack</strong></summary>

| | |
|-|-|
| Supercomponents and pipeline | Prompt template pipeline| 
| ![](./ch3/jupyter-notebooks/images/full_pipeline_with_supercomponent.png) | ![](./ch3/jupyter-notebooks/images/prompt_pipeline.png) | 

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Chapter 4: RAG pipelines: indexing and retrieval</strong></summary>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Indexing pipeline | Hybrid RAG pipeline| 
|![](./ch4/jupyter-notebooks/images/indexing_pipeline.png) | ![](./ch4/jupyter-notebooks/images/hybrid_rag_pipeline.png)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Chapter 5: Build custom components: synthetic data generation with Ragas</strong></summary>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Knowledge graph and synthetic data generation (SDG) pipeline | SDG applied to websites and PDFS |
|![](./ch5/jupyter-notebooks/images/web_knowledge_graph_pipeline.png) | ![](./ch5/jupyter-notebooks/images/advanced_branching_kg_pipeline.png)

</details>


<strong>Chapter 6: Reproducible evaluation of hybrid and naive RAG with Ragas and Weights and Biases</strong>


<strong>Chapter 7: Deploy pipelines as an API with FastAPI and Hayhooks</strong>


<strong>Chapter 8 and Optional Advanced Modules: Capstone and Agentic Patterns for Production<strong>

| | | 
|-|-|
| Microservice architecture| Multi-agent system using microservices|
| ![](./microservicearchitecture.png) | ![](./agentarchitecture.png)|

> **📝 Sovereign-Friendly & Local Execution**: The majority of exercises throughout this book are written so you can choose between **OpenAI APIs** or **local models via Ollama** (such as [Mistral Nemo](https://ollama.com/library/mistral-nemo), [GPT-OSS](https://ollama.com/library/gpt-oss), or [Deepseek-R1](https://ollama.com/library/deepseek-r1) and [Qwen3](https://ollama.com/library/qwen3)), with the exception of the cost tracking exercises in Chapter 6 which specifically demonstrate OpenAI API usage monitoring. Each notebook provides specific model recommendations to help you choose the most suitable option for that particular exercise. The frameworks explored are extensible and models from other providers can be used to substitute OpenAI or local models. No US cloud, external APIs, or proprietary services are required for the majority of the book, making it easy to run in EU-regulated or air-gapped environments. The [epilogue-advanced](./epilogue-advanced/) folder includes an optional prototype-to-production multi-agent implementation with LangGraph using LangSmith Studio. These exercises require a free [LangSmith Studio](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/javascript/langgraph/studio) API key, all exercises can also be run entirely locally and you can disable the tracer `export LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2="false"`. Scripts are provided so you can run the agent on your terminal - you simply won’t see the studio traces or visualize the agent if you choose not to use LangSmith studio.

## Setting up

Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Building-Natural-Language-Pipelines.git

cd Building-Natural-Language-Pipelines/

```

Each chapter contains a `pyproject.toml` file with the folder's dependencies. **(Recommended) Open each folder in a new VS Code window.**

1. **Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/):**
	```sh
	pip install uv
	```
2. **Change directories into the folder**
3. **Install dependencies:**
	```sh
	uv sync
	```
4. **Activate the virtual environment:**
	```sh
	source .venv/bin/activate
	```
5. **Select the virtual environment as the Jupyter kernel:**
	- Open any notebook.
	- Click the kernel picker (top right) and select the `.venv` environment.

---

## Chapter breakdown

### **[Chapter 2: Diving Deep into Large Language Models](./ch2/)**
**Agent Foundations & State Management**
- **LangGraph Fundamentals**: Understanding state-based agent frameworks and graph architecture
- **Building Simple Agents**: Creating agents with state management using MessagesState and reducers
- **Tool Integration**: Connecting agents with external tools (search APIs, databases, custom functions)
- **Multi-Agent Systems**: Designing and coordinating multiple specialized agents in workflows
- **Middleware Patterns**: Implementing logging, authentication, and monitoring layers for agent systems
- **Local vs Cloud LLMs**: Running agents with OpenAI APIs or locally with Ollama (Qwen2, Llama, Mistral)

### **[Chapter 3: Introduction to Haystack](./ch3/)**
**Core Concepts & Foundation**
- **Component Architecture**: Understanding Haystack's modular design patterns
- **Pipeline Construction**: Building linear and branching data flow pipelines  
- **Document Processing**: Text extraction, cleaning, and preprocessing workflows
- **Prompting LLMs**: Learn to build prompt templates and guide how an LLM responds
- **Package pipelines as Supercomponents**: Abstract a pipeline as a Haystack component

### **[Chapter 4: Bringing components together: Haystack pipelines for different use cases](./ch4/)**
**Scaling & Optimization**
- **Indexing Pipelines**: Automated document ingestion and preprocessing workflows
- **Naive RAG**: Semantic search using sentence transformers and embedding models
- **Hybrid RAG**: Combining keyword (BM25) and semantic (vector) search strategies
- **Reranking**: Advanced retrieval techniques using ranker models
- **Pipelines as tools for an Agent**: Package advanced RAG as a tool for an autonomous Agent

### **[Chapter 5: Haystack pipeline development with custom components](./ch5/)**
**Extensibility & Testing**
- **Component SDK**: Creating custom Haystack components with proper interfaces
- **Knowledge Graph Integration**: Building components for structured knowledge representation
- **Synthetic Data Generation**: Automated test data creation for pipeline validation
- **Quality Control Systems**: Implementing automated evaluation and monitoring components
- **Unit Testing Frameworks**: Comprehensive testing strategies for custom components

### **[Chapter 6: Setting up a reproducible project: naive vs hybrid RAG with reranking and evaluation](./ch6/)**
**Reproducible Workflows & Evaluation**
- **Reproducible Workflow Building Blocks**: Setting up consistent environments with Docker, Elasticsearch, and dependency management
- **Naive RAG Implementation**: Building basic retrieval-augmented generation with semantic search
- **Hybrid RAG with Reranking**: Advanced retrieval combining keyword (BM25) and semantic search with rank fusion strategies
- **Evaluation with RAGAS**: Using the RAGAS framework to assess and compare naive vs hybrid RAG system quality across multiple dimensions
- **Observability with Weights and Biases**: Implementing monitoring and tracking for RAG system performance comparison and experiment management
- **Performance Optimization through Feedback Loops**: Creating iterative improvement cycles using evaluation results to enhance retrieval and generation performance

### **Chapter 7: Production deployment strategies**
**Deployment & Scaling**

#### **[Deploying a Retriever Pipeline as FastAPI App](./ch7/)**
- **FastAPI REST API**: Building production-ready APIs with clean documentation and error handling
- **Docker Containerization**: Full containerization with Docker Compose for scalable deployments
- **Elasticsearch Integration**: Production-grade document storage and hybrid search capabilities
- **Local Development Workflows**: Script-based development environment setup and testing

#### **[Deploying Multiple Pipelines with Hayhooks](./ch7-hayhooks/)**
- **Hayhooks Framework**: Multi-pipeline deployment using Haystack's native REST API framework
- **Pipeline Orchestration**: Managing multiple RAG pipelines (indexing + querying) as microservices
- **Service Discovery**: Automated API endpoint generation and pipeline management

### **[Chapter 8: Hands-on projects](./ch8/)**
**Real-World Applications & Multi-Agent Systems**

Hands-on projects that progress from beginner to advanced complexity, focusing on Named Entity Recognition, Text Classification, and Multi-Agent Systems. Projects includes complete notebooks with custom component definition, pipeline definition, and pipeline serialization.

#### **[Named Entity Recognition (NER) - Beginner](./ch8/named-entity-recognition/)**
- **Haystack Pipeline Fundamentals**: Building basic pipelines for entity extraction workflows
- **Pre-trained NER Models**: Using transformer models to identify people, organizations, and locations
- **Custom Component Creation**: Developing reusable components for text processing
- **Web Content Processing**: Building pipelines that extract entities from web search results
- **SuperComponents and Agents**: Wrapping pipelines as tools and building agents for natural language interaction

#### **[Text Classification & Sentiment Analysis - Intermediate](./ch8/text-classification/)**
- **Zero-Shot Classification**: Categorizing content without training data using LLMs
- **External API Integration**: Connecting Haystack pipelines with the Yelp API
- **Model Performance Evaluation**: Assessing classification accuracy on labeled datasets
- **Sentiment Analysis Pipelines**: Building custom components for analyzing review sentiment
- **Haystack Agent Mini Project**: Hands-on exercise combining NER and classification pipelines with agent orchestration and Hayhooks deployment

#### **[Yelp Navigator - Multi-Agent System - Advanced](./ch8/yelp-navigator/)**
- **Pipeline Chaining**: Connecting multiple specialized Haystack pipelines into complex workflows
- **Hayhooks Deployment**: Deploying pipelines as REST API endpoints for agent consumption
- **LangGraph Multi-Agent Orchestration**: Building intelligent supervisor systems that coordinate specialized agents
- **Modular Pipeline Architecture**: Creating 4 specialized pipelines (business search, details, sentiment, reporting)
- **Ambiguous Input Handling**: Using NER and intelligent routing to process natural language queries
- **Distributed Data Aggregation**: Generating comprehensive reports from multiple data sources

### **[Optional - advanced](./epilogue-advanced/)**
**Advanced LangGraph Supervisor Patterns for Production**
This folder contains an extended, production-grade implementation of the agentic supervisor described in Chapter 8.

- **Three Agent Architectures**: Progressive implementations from learning (V1 monolithic) to production-ready (V3 with checkpointing)
- **State Management Patterns**: Understanding how architectural decisions impact token usage and cost (16-50% reduction)
- **Monolithic vs Supervisor Patterns**: Comparing design approaches with automated token measurement tools
- **Production Features**: Error handling with retry policies, conversation persistence with checkpointing, and graceful degradation
- **Guardrails**: Input validation with prompt injection detection and PII sanitization for secure agent interactions
- **Checkpointing Systems**: Thread-based session management with both in-memory (development) and SQLite (production) persistence options
