ch7-hayhooks/README.md, before:

# Hayhooks MCP - Indexing & Hybrid RAG Deployment

This project demonstrates how to deploy Haystack pipelines as REST API services using Hayhooks, providing production-ready endpoints for document indexing and intelligent question answering.


## Quick Start

1. **Setup Environment**:
```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Copy .env.example and add your openAI API key
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and add your OpenAI API key:


```bash
# OpenAI API Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_actual_openai_api_key_here

# Elasticsearch Configuration
ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS=http://localhost:9200
ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX=documents

# Hayhooks Configuration
HAYHOOKS_HOST=0.0.0.0
HAYHOOKS_PORT=1416
HAYHOOKS_PIPELINES_DIR=./pipelines
HAYHOOKS_SHOW_TRACEBACKS=true
```

2. **Start Elasticsearch**

```bash
# Create and Start Elasticsearch using Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d elasticsearch

# Running
docker-compose up -d elasticsearch

# Verify Elasticsearch is running
curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_cluster/health?pretty"
```

Expected response:

```json
{
  "cluster_name" : "docker-cluster",
  "status" : "green",
  "timed_out" : false,
  "number_of_nodes" : 1,
  "number_of_data_nodes" : 1,
  "active_primary_shards" : 0,
  "active_shards" : 0,
  "relocating_shards" : 0,
  "initializing_shards" : 0,
  "unassigned_shards" : 0,
  "delayed_unassigned_shards" : 0,
  "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
  "number_of_in_flight_fetch" : 0,
  "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis" : 0,
  "active_shards_percent_as_number" : 100.0
}
```

3. **Run Hayhookst**:
```bash
uv run hayhooks run
```

## API Endpoints

Once deployed, your pipelines are available at:

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/indexing/run` | POST | Index documents from URLs or files |
| `/hybrid_rag/run` | POST | Answer questions using RAG |
| `/v1/chat/completions` | POST | OpenAI-compatible chat interface |
| `/docs` | GET | Interactive API documentation |
| `/status` | GET | Server and pipeline status |

## Usage Examples

### Index a Document
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:1416/indexing/run" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"urls": ["https://example.com/article"]}'
```

### Ask a Question  
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:1416/hybrid_rag/run" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What are the benefits of AI?"}'
```

### OpenAI-Style Chat
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:1416/v1/chat/completions" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "hybrid_rag",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Explain machine learning"}]
  }'
```

## Overview

This project consists of two main pipelines:

1. **Indexing Pipeline**: Processes documents (PDFs, web content) and stores them in Elasticsearch with embeddings
2. **Retrieval Pipeline**: Performs hybrid RAG (BM25 + embeddings) to answer questions based on indexed documents

Both pipelines are exposed through Hayhooks as REST API endpoints, making them easy to integrate into web applications or other systems.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────────┐
│   Web Files     │    │  Indexing        │    │   Elasticsearch     │
│   PDF Files     ├───►│  Pipeline        ├───►│   Document Store    │
│   URLs          │    │  (Hayhooks)      │    │                     │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────────┘
                                                          │
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐              │
│   Questions     │    │  Retrieval       │◄─────────────┘
│   Queries       ├───►│  Pipeline        │
│                 │    │  (Hayhooks)      │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘
```

### Pipeline Components

#### Indexing Pipeline
- **LinkContentFetcher**: Fetches content from URLs
- **FileTypeRouter**: Routes files based on MIME type (PDF, HTML, text)
- **Document Converters**: Convert PDFs and HTML to text
- **DocumentCleaner**: Removes extra whitespace and empty lines
- **DocumentSplitter**: Splits documents into chunks
- **OpenAIDocumentEmbedder**: Creates embeddings using OpenAI
- **DocumentWriter**: Stores documents in Elasticsearch

#### Retrieval Pipeline
- **OpenAITextEmbedder**: Embeds user queries
- **ElasticsearchEmbeddingRetriever**: Dense retrieval using embeddings
- **ElasticsearchBM25Retriever**: Sparse retrieval using BM25
- **DocumentJoiner**: Combines results from both retrievers
- **SentenceTransformersSimilarityRanker**: Re-ranks documents for relevance
- **PromptBuilder**: Creates prompts with retrieved context
- **OpenAIGenerator**: Generates answers using GPT

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- Docker and Docker Compose
- OpenAI API key


## Project Structure

```
hayhooks-mcp/
├── docker-compose.yml             # Docker services
├── pipelines/                        # Pipeline wrappers
│   ├── indexing/
│   │   └── pipeline_wrapper.py      # Indexing API wrapper
│   └── hybrid_rag/
│       └── pipeline_wrapper.py      # RAG API wrapper
```

## What This Provides

### Document Indexing API
- **URL Indexing**: Fetch and index web content
- **File Upload**: Index PDF, HTML, and text files  
- **Batch Processing**: Handle multiple documents at once
- **Smart Chunking**: Sentence-based splitting with overlap

### Hybrid RAG Query API  
- **Intelligent Retrieval**: BM25 + embedding-based search
- **Reranking**: Advanced relevance scoring
- **Contextual Answers**: GPT-powered response generation
- **Source Attribution**: Track document sources

### OpenAI Compatibility
- **Chat Completions**: `/v1/chat/completions` endpoint
- **Easy Integration**: Works with existing OpenAI clients
- **Streaming Support**: Real-time response streaming


## Features

- **Production Ready**: Docker deployment with health checks
- **Auto Documentation**: Swagger/OpenAPI docs generation  
- **Smart Retrieval**: Hybrid BM25 + embedding search
- **Fast Processing**: Optimized pipeline execution
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error reporting
- **Scalable**: Horizontal scaling support
- **Extensible**: Easy to add new endpoints

## Advanced Usage

For detailed instructions on:
- Pipeline wrapper development
- YAML serialization
- Docker deployment  
- Performance tuning
- Custom endpoints
- Production configuration

[Review pipeline serialization and deployment steps](./serializing_pipelines.md)

Commit message:

Update chapter 7 README files with deployment details
Revised both ch7 and ch7-hayhooks README.md files to clarify the structure of Chapter 7, distinguishing between Part I (FastAPI deployment of a retrieval pipeline) and Part II (advanced Hayhooks deployment with dynamic indexing and retrieval). Added context about the learning objectives and cross-references between the two parts.

ch7-hayhooks/README.md, after:

# Chapter 7 Deploying Haystack-based applications  

 
In this chapter you will learn about how to deploy multiple Haystack pipelines as REST API services that can interact with one another using Hayhooks, providing production-ready endpoints for document indexing and intelligent question answering. This is Part II in chapter 7, covering an advanced case where you will learn to deploy an indexing and advanced retrieval pipelines that can dynamically upload a PDF and web urls and answer questions about the uploaded material. In [Part I](../ch7/README.md) we learn about a simpler case where we deploy a Haystack pipeline as a REST API using FastAPI and dockerize the application.


## Quick Start

1. **Setup Environment**:
```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Copy .env.example and add your openAI API key
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and add your OpenAI API key:


```bash
# OpenAI API Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_actual_openai_api_key_here

# Elasticsearch Configuration
ELASTICSEARCH_HOSTS=http://localhost:9200
ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX=documents

# Hayhooks Configuration
HAYHOOKS_HOST=0.0.0.0
HAYHOOKS_PORT=1416
HAYHOOKS_PIPELINES_DIR=./pipelines
HAYHOOKS_SHOW_TRACEBACKS=true
```

2. **Start Elasticsearch**

```bash
# Create and Start Elasticsearch using Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d elasticsearch

# Running
docker-compose up -d elasticsearch

# Verify Elasticsearch is running
curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_cluster/health?pretty"
```

Expected response:

```json
{
  "cluster_name" : "docker-cluster",
  "status" : "green",
  "timed_out" : false,
  "number_of_nodes" : 1,
  "number_of_data_nodes" : 1,
  "active_primary_shards" : 0,
  "active_shards" : 0,
  "relocating_shards" : 0,
  "initializing_shards" : 0,
  "unassigned_shards" : 0,
  "delayed_unassigned_shards" : 0,
  "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
  "number_of_in_flight_fetch" : 0,
  "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis" : 0,
  "active_shards_percent_as_number" : 100.0
}
```

3. **Run Hayhookst**:
```bash
uv run hayhooks run
```

## API Endpoints

Once deployed, your pipelines are available at:

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/indexing/run` | POST | Index documents from URLs or files |
| `/hybrid_rag/run` | POST | Answer questions using RAG |
| `/v1/chat/completions` | POST | OpenAI-compatible chat interface |
| `/docs` | GET | Interactive API documentation |
| `/status` | GET | Server and pipeline status |

## Usage Examples

### Index a Document
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:1416/indexing/run" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"urls": ["https://example.com/article"]}'
```

### Ask a Question  
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:1416/hybrid_rag/run" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"query": "What are the benefits of AI?"}'
```

### OpenAI-Style Chat
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:1416/v1/chat/completions" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "hybrid_rag",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Explain machine learning"}]
  }'
```

## Overview

This project consists of two main pipelines:

1. **Indexing Pipeline**: Processes documents (PDFs, web content) and stores them in Elasticsearch with embeddings
2. **Retrieval Pipeline**: Performs hybrid RAG (BM25 + embeddings) to answer questions based on indexed documents

Both pipelines are exposed through Hayhooks as REST API endpoints, making them easy to integrate into web applications or other systems.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────────┐
│   Web Files     │    │  Indexing        │    │   Elasticsearch     │
│   PDF Files     ├───►│  Pipeline        ├───►│   Document Store    │
│   URLs          │    │  (Hayhooks)      │    │                     │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘    └─────────────────────┘
                                                          │
┌─────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐              │
│   Questions     │    │  Retrieval       │◄─────────────┘
│   Queries       ├───►│  Pipeline        │
│                 │    │  (Hayhooks)      │
└─────────────────┘    └──────────────────┘
```

### Pipeline Components

#### Indexing Pipeline
- **LinkContentFetcher**: Fetches content from URLs
- **FileTypeRouter**: Routes files based on MIME type (PDF, HTML, text)
- **Document Converters**: Convert PDFs and HTML to text
- **DocumentCleaner**: Removes extra whitespace and empty lines
- **DocumentSplitter**: Splits documents into chunks
- **OpenAIDocumentEmbedder**: Creates embeddings using OpenAI
- **DocumentWriter**: Stores documents in Elasticsearch

#### Retrieval Pipeline
- **OpenAITextEmbedder**: Embeds user queries
- **ElasticsearchEmbeddingRetriever**: Dense retrieval using embeddings
- **ElasticsearchBM25Retriever**: Sparse retrieval using BM25
- **DocumentJoiner**: Combines results from both retrievers
- **SentenceTransformersSimilarityRanker**: Re-ranks documents for relevance
- **PromptBuilder**: Creates prompts with retrieved context
- **OpenAIGenerator**: Generates answers using GPT

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- Docker and Docker Compose
- OpenAI API key


## Project Structure

```
hayhooks-mcp/
├── docker-compose.yml             # Docker services
├── pipelines/                        # Pipeline wrappers
│   ├── indexing/
│   │   └── pipeline_wrapper.py      # Indexing API wrapper
│   └── hybrid_rag/
│       └── pipeline_wrapper.py      # RAG API wrapper
```

## What This Provides

### Document Indexing API
- **URL Indexing**: Fetch and index web content
- **File Upload**: Index PDF, HTML, and text files  
- **Batch Processing**: Handle multiple documents at once
- **Smart Chunking**: Sentence-based splitting with overlap

### Hybrid RAG Query API  
- **Intelligent Retrieval**: BM25 + embedding-based search
- **Reranking**: Advanced relevance scoring
- **Contextual Answers**: GPT-powered response generation
- **Source Attribution**: Track document sources

### OpenAI Compatibility
- **Chat Completions**: `/v1/chat/completions` endpoint
- **Easy Integration**: Works with existing OpenAI clients
- **Streaming Support**: Real-time response streaming


## Features

- **Production Ready**: Docker deployment with health checks
- **Auto Documentation**: Swagger/OpenAPI docs generation  
- **Smart Retrieval**: Hybrid BM25 + embedding search
- **Fast Processing**: Optimized pipeline execution
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error reporting
- **Scalable**: Horizontal scaling support
- **Extensible**: Easy to add new endpoints

## Advanced Usage

For detailed instructions on:
- Pipeline wrapper development
- YAML serialization
- Docker deployment  
- Performance tuning
- Custom endpoints
- Production configuration

[Review pipeline serialization and deployment steps](./serializing_pipelines.md)
