ch4/README.md, before:

# Chapter 4: Building Advanced Haystack Pipelines

This repository contains exercises and interactive notebooks for Chapter 4, focusing on building advanced pipelines with Haystack for different use cases.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/):**
	```sh
	pip install uv
	```
2. **Install dependencies:**
	```sh
	uv sync
	```
3. **Activate the virtual environment:**
	```sh
	source .venv/bin/activate
	```
4. **(Recommended) Open this `ch4` folder in a new VS Code window.**
5. **Select the virtual environment as the Jupyter kernel:**
	- Open any notebook.
	- Click the kernel picker (top right) and select the `.venv` environment.

6. **Set up API keys:**

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with your API keys:
```sh
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
SERPER_API_KEY=your_serper_key_here
```

To obtain the API keys:
- OpenAI API key: Sign up at [OpenAI's platform](https://platform.openai.com)
- Serper API key: Register at [Serper.dev](https://serper.dev)

---

## Contents

| Notebook | Link | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Indexing Pipeline | [indexing_pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/indexing_pipeline.ipynb) | Learn to build a pipeline for processing and indexing different document types |
| Semantic Search Pipeline | [semantic_search_pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/semantic_search_pipeline.ipynb) | Implement advanced semantic search capabilities using hybrid retrieval |
| Hybrid Pipeline | [hybrid_pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/hybrid_pipeline.ipynb) | Combine multiple retrieval methods for improved search accuracy |
| Supercomponents and advanced agentic RAG | [supercomponents_and_agentic_rag.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/supercomponents_and_agentic_rag.ipynb) | Create reusable pipeline components for complex workflows |

Images for pipeline visualizations are in `jupyter-notebooks/images/`.

---

## Chapter topics covered

1. Designing a pipeline with Haystack’s design in mind 
2. Building pipelines with Haystack 
* Preprocessing pipelines: Leveraging information from the internet, text and tabular information 
* Indexing pipelines 
* Question and answer pipelines 
* Routers in pipelines
3. Sample pipeline use cases 
4. Indexing and Naive Retrieval Augmented Generation 
5. Advanced pipeline use cases 
6. Hybrid Retrieval Augmented Generation with Reranking and evaluation 
7. Supercomponents: Pipelines as tools for agents

Commit message:

Add Ollama support and update AI usage instructions
Added instructions in ch3 and ch4 READMEs for using Ollama as a local LLM alternative to OpenAI, including model pull steps. Updated Jupyter notebooks in ch3 and ch4 to provide Ollama generator code examples and clarify usage. Switched web search component in ch4 notebook to SearchApiWebSearch. Added 'ollama-haystack' to ch4 dependencies and lock file for Ollama integration.

ch4/README.md, after:

# Chapter 4: Building Advanced Haystack Pipelines

This repository contains exercises and interactive notebooks for Chapter 4, focusing on building advanced pipelines with Haystack for different use cases.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/):**
	```sh
	pip install uv
	```
2. **Install dependencies:**
	```sh
	uv sync
	```
3. **Activate the virtual environment:**
	```sh
	source .venv/bin/activate
	```
4. **(Recommended) Open this `ch4` folder in a new VS Code window.**
5. **Select the virtual environment as the Jupyter kernel:**
	- Open any notebook.
	- Click the kernel picker (top right) and select the `.venv` environment.

6. **Set up API keys:**

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with your API keys:
```sh
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
```

To obtain the API keys:
- OpenAI API key: Sign up at [OpenAI's platform](https://platform.openai.com)

7. **If you do not want to use OpenAI: Install Ollama for local LLM inference:**

```sh
# macOS/Linux
curl -fsSL https://ollama.com/install.sh | sh

# Or download from: https://ollama.com
```

Pull the Mistral-Nemo model:
```sh
ollama pull mistral-nemo:12b
```

Pull Nomic embedding model:
```sh
ollama pull nomic-embed-text
```

---

## Contents

| Notebook | Link | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Indexing Pipeline | [indexing_pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/indexing_pipeline.ipynb) | Learn to build a pipeline for processing and indexing different document types |
| Semantic Search Pipeline | [semantic_search_pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/semantic_search_pipeline.ipynb) | Implement advanced semantic search capabilities using hybrid retrieval |
| Hybrid Pipeline | [hybrid_pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/hybrid_pipeline.ipynb) | Combine multiple retrieval methods for improved search accuracy |
| Supercomponents and advanced agentic RAG | [supercomponents_and_agentic_rag.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/supercomponents_and_agentic_rag.ipynb) | Create reusable pipeline components for complex workflows |

Images for pipeline visualizations are in `jupyter-notebooks/images/`.

---

## Chapter topics covered

1. Designing a pipeline with Haystack’s design in mind 
2. Building pipelines with Haystack 
* Preprocessing pipelines: Leveraging information from the internet, text and tabular information 
* Indexing pipelines 
* Question and answer pipelines 
* Routers in pipelines
3. Sample pipeline use cases 
4. Indexing and Naive Retrieval Augmented Generation 
5. Advanced pipeline use cases 
6. Hybrid Retrieval Augmented Generation with Reranking and evaluation 
7. Supercomponents: Pipelines as tools for agents
