ch3/README.md, before:


# Chapter 3: Introduction to Haystack by deepset

This repository contains exercises and interactive notebooks for Chapter 3, introducing Haystack's NLP pipeline and LLM orchestration framework.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/):**
	```sh
	pip install uv
	```
2. **Install dependencies:**
	```sh
	uv sync
	```
3. **Activate the virtual environment:**
	```sh
	source .venv/bin/activate
	```
4. **(Recommended) Open this `ch3` folder in a new VS Code window.**
5. **Select the virtual environment as the Jupyter kernel:**
	- Open any notebook.
	- Click the kernel picker (top right) and select the `.venv` environment.

---

## Contents

| Notebook | Link | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Components | [components.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/components.ipynb) | Explore Haystack's core components for document cleaning, splitting, prompt building, and LLM generation. |
| Your First Pipeline | [your-first-pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/your-first-pipeline.ipynb) | Step-by-step guide to building and running a simple Haystack pipeline. |
| Your First Custom Component | [your-first-custom-component.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/your-first-custom-component.ipynb) | Learn how to design, implement, and use a custom Haystack component. |
| Supercomponents | [supercomponents.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/supercomponents.ipynb) | Create and use supercomponents to encapsulate reusable pipelines. |

Images for pipeline visualizations are in `jupyter-notebooks/images/`.

---

## Chapter topics covered

1. An overview of deepset
2. About Haystack’s NLP pipeline and LLM orchestration framework
3. Haystack key building blocks: components and pipelines
4. Key features and advantages
5. Use cases and applications
6. Architecture of Haystack
7. Incorporating Haystack into your workflow

Commit message:

Add Ollama support and update AI usage instructions
Added instructions in ch3 and ch4 READMEs for using Ollama as a local LLM alternative to OpenAI, including model pull steps. Updated Jupyter notebooks in ch3 and ch4 to provide Ollama generator code examples and clarify usage. Switched web search component in ch4 notebook to SearchApiWebSearch. Added 'ollama-haystack' to ch4 dependencies and lock file for Ollama integration.

ch3/README.md, after:


# Chapter 3: Introduction to Haystack by deepset

This repository contains exercises and interactive notebooks for Chapter 3, introducing Haystack's NLP pipeline and LLM orchestration framework.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/):**
	```sh
	pip install uv
	```
2. **Install dependencies:**
	```sh
	uv sync
	```
3. **Activate the virtual environment:**
	```sh
	source .venv/bin/activate
	```
4. **(Recommended) Open this `ch3` folder in a new VS Code window.**
5. **Select the virtual environment as the Jupyter kernel:**
	- Open any notebook.
	- Click the kernel picker (top right) and select the `.venv` environment.

6. **Create an .env file with your openai key**

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with your API keys:
```sh
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
```

To obtain the API keys:
- OpenAI API key: Sign up at [OpenAI's platform](https://platform.openai.com)

7. **If you do not want to use OpenAI: Install Ollama for local LLM inference:**

```sh
# macOS/Linux
curl -fsSL https://ollama.com/install.sh | sh

# Or download from: https://ollama.com
```

Pull the Mistral-Nemo model:
```sh
ollama pull mistral-nemo:12b
```

Pull Nomic embedding model:
```sh
ollama pull nomic-embed-text
```
---

## Contents

| Notebook | Link | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Components | [components.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/components.ipynb) | Explore Haystack's core components for document cleaning, splitting, prompt building, and LLM generation. |
| Your First Pipeline | [your-first-pipeline.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/your-first-pipeline.ipynb) | Step-by-step guide to building and running a simple Haystack pipeline. |
| Your First Custom Component | [your-first-custom-component.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/your-first-custom-component.ipynb) | Learn how to design, implement, and use a custom Haystack component. |
| Supercomponents | [supercomponents.ipynb](./jupyter-notebooks/supercomponents.ipynb) | Create and use supercomponents to encapsulate reusable pipelines. |

Images for pipeline visualizations are in `jupyter-notebooks/images/`.

---

## Chapter topics covered

1. An overview of deepset
2. About Haystack’s NLP pipeline and LLM orchestration framework
3. Haystack key building blocks: components and pipelines
4. Key features and advantages
5. Use cases and applications
6. Architecture of Haystack
7. Incorporating Haystack into your workflow
