ch8/text-classification/haystack-agents-mini-project/HINTS.md, before:

# Exercise Solutions Guide

> **Note**: This file provides hints and guidance for each section. Try to complete each section on your own first before consulting these hints.

## Section 2: EntityExtractor Implementation

### Hint 1: Initializing the NER Model
```python
# Initialize before the class definition
ner_model = NamedEntityExtractor(
    backend="hugging_face",
    model="dslim/bert-base-NER"
)
ner_model.warm_up()
```

### Hint 2: Running NER Extraction
```python
# Inside the run() method
ner_result = ner_model.run(documents=[document])
# The result adds 'named_entities' to document.meta
```

### Hint 3: Processing Entities
```python
# Get named entities from metadata
named_entities = document.meta.get('named_entities', [])

# Loop through and filter
for entity in named_entities:
    if entity.score >= self.confidence_threshold:
        word = content[entity.start:entity.end]
        entities_by_type[entity.entity].add(word)
```

### Hint 4: Storing Results
```python
# Convert sets to lists
document.meta['entities'] = {
    "PER": list(entities_by_type["PER"]),
    "ORG": list(entities_by_type["ORG"]),
    "LOC": list(entities_by_type["LOC"]),
    "MISC": list(entities_by_type["MISC"])
}
```

## Section 3: Classification Pipeline

### Hint 1: Component Initialization
```python
web_search = SearchApiWebSearch(
    top_k=5,
    api_key=Secret.from_env_var("SEARCH_API_KEY"),
    allowed_domains=["https://www.britannica.com/"]
)

link_content = LinkContentFetcher(
    retry_attempts=3,
    timeout=10
)

# ... initialize remaining components
```

### Hint 2: Pipeline Connections
The flow should be:
```
search.links → fetcher.urls
fetcher → htmldocument
htmldocument → cleaner
cleaner → classifier
```

## Section 4: Combined Pipeline

### Key Insight
Connect the classifier output to the entity extractor input:
```python
pipeline.connect("cleaner", "classifier")
pipeline.connect("classifier", "entity_extractor")
```

## Section 5: SuperComponents

### Input/Output Mapping Pattern
```python
SuperComponent(
    pipeline=your_pipeline,
    input_mapping={
        "query": ["search.query"]  # External param → Internal param
    },
    output_mapping={
        "last_component.documents": "documents"  # Internal → External
    }
)
```

### Remember
- Input mapping: Maps external parameters to internal component inputs
- Output mapping: Exposes internal outputs as external outputs
- Use the correct final component name (classifier, entity_extractor, etc.)

## Section 6: Tool Descriptions

### Good Tool Description Template
```
Purpose: [What does this tool do?]
Input: [What parameters does it need?]
Output: [What does it return?]
Use cases: [When should this tool be used?]
Example: [Sample usage scenario]
```

### Classification Tool Example Structure
```
"Use this tool to classify web articles into categories.
Categories: Politics, Sport, Technology, Entertainment, Business
Input: query (string) - topic to search for
Output: Documents with 'labels' in metadata containing category
Use when: User asks to classify articles or categorize content"
```

## Section 7: Agent System Prompt

### Key Elements to Include
1. **Agent Role**: What is the agent's purpose?
2. **Available Tools**: List each tool with brief description
3. **Decision Logic**: When to use each tool
4. **Response Format**: How to present results
5. **Examples**: Sample queries for each tool

### Structure Example
```
You are a [role] assistant with access to [tools].

Available tools:
1. [tool_name]: [when to use]
2. [tool_name]: [when to use]
3. [tool_name]: [when to use]

When a user asks to:
- [scenario] → use [tool]
- [scenario] → use [tool]

Always:
- [guideline 1]
- [guideline 2]
```

## Section 8: Serialization

### Basic Pattern
```python
yaml_content = pipeline.dumps()

with open("pipelines/pipeline_name.yaml", "w") as f:
    f.write(yaml_content)
```

### Verification
```python
# Load and test
test_pipeline = Pipeline.loads(yaml_content)
result = test_pipeline.run(...)
```

## Section 9: Hayhooks Deployment

### Starting the Server
```bash
hayhooks run --pipelines-dir pipelines/
```

### Testing with Python
```python
response = requests.post(
    "http://localhost:1416/pipelines/pipeline_name",
    json={"search": {"query": "test"}}
)
result = response.json()
```

### Testing with curl
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:1416/pipelines/pipeline_name \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"search": {"query": "test"}}'
```

## Common Debugging Scenarios

### Issue: "Component not found"
**Check**: Component names in pipeline.connect() match the names used in add_component()

### Issue: "Output type mismatch"
**Check**: The output type of one component matches the input type of the next

### Issue: "No named_entities in metadata"
**Check**: NER extractor was properly initialized and warm_up() was called

### Issue: "Agent not using correct tool"
**Check**: Tool descriptions are clear and specific about when to use each tool

### Issue: "YAML serialization fails"
**Check**: All components can be serialized (custom components need proper decorators)

Commit message:

Update project docs with pipeline build and deployment steps
Added instructions for rebuilding pipelines after component changes and clarified the build and deployment workflow for Hayhooks in both HINTS.md and README.md. Improved task breakdown, added references to custom components, and reorganized guidance for agent and pipeline development.

ch8/text-classification/haystack-agents-mini-project/HINTS.md, after:

# Exercise Solutions Guide

> **Note**: This file provides hints and guidance for each section. Try to complete each section on your own first before consulting these hints.

## Section 2: EntityExtractor Implementation

### Hint 1: Initializing the NER Model
```python
# Initialize before the class definition
ner_model = NamedEntityExtractor(
    backend="hugging_face",
    model="dslim/bert-base-NER"
)
ner_model.warm_up()
```

### Hint 2: Running NER Extraction
```python
# Inside the run() method
ner_result = ner_model.run(documents=[document])
# The result adds 'named_entities' to document.meta
```

### Hint 3: Processing Entities
```python
# Get named entities from metadata
named_entities = document.meta.get('named_entities', [])

# Loop through and filter
for entity in named_entities:
    if entity.score >= self.confidence_threshold:
        word = content[entity.start:entity.end]
        entities_by_type[entity.entity].add(word)
```

### Hint 4: Storing Results
```python
# Convert sets to lists
document.meta['entities'] = {
    "PER": list(entities_by_type["PER"]),
    "ORG": list(entities_by_type["ORG"]),
    "LOC": list(entities_by_type["LOC"]),
    "MISC": list(entities_by_type["MISC"])
}
```

## Section 3: Classification Pipeline

### Hint 1: Component Initialization
```python
web_search = SearchApiWebSearch(
    top_k=5,
    api_key=Secret.from_env_var("SEARCH_API_KEY"),
    allowed_domains=["https://www.britannica.com/"]
)

link_content = LinkContentFetcher(
    retry_attempts=3,
    timeout=10
)

# ... initialize remaining components
```

### Hint 2: Pipeline Connections
The flow should be:
```
search.links → fetcher.urls
fetcher → htmldocument
htmldocument → cleaner
cleaner → classifier
```

## Section 4: Combined Pipeline

### Key Insight
Connect the classifier output to the entity extractor input:
```python
pipeline.connect("cleaner", "classifier")
pipeline.connect("classifier", "entity_extractor")
```

## Section 5: SuperComponents

### Input/Output Mapping Pattern
```python
SuperComponent(
    pipeline=your_pipeline,
    input_mapping={
        "query": ["search.query"]  # External param → Internal param
    },
    output_mapping={
        "last_component.documents": "documents"  # Internal → External
    }
)
```

### Remember
- Input mapping: Maps external parameters to internal component inputs
- Output mapping: Exposes internal outputs as external outputs
- Use the correct final component name (classifier, entity_extractor, etc.)

## Section 6: Tool Descriptions

### Good Tool Description Template
```
Purpose: [What does this tool do?]
Input: [What parameters does it need?]
Output: [What does it return?]
Use cases: [When should this tool be used?]
Example: [Sample usage scenario]
```

### Classification Tool Example Structure
```
"Use this tool to classify web articles into categories.
Categories: Politics, Sport, Technology, Entertainment, Business
Input: query (string) - topic to search for
Output: Documents with 'labels' in metadata containing category
Use when: User asks to classify articles or categorize content"
```

## Section 7: Agent System Prompt

### Key Elements to Include
1. **Agent Role**: What is the agent's purpose?
2. **Available Tools**: List each tool with brief description
3. **Decision Logic**: When to use each tool
4. **Response Format**: How to present results
5. **Examples**: Sample queries for each tool

### Structure Example
```
You are a [role] assistant with access to [tools].

Available tools:
1. [tool_name]: [when to use]
2. [tool_name]: [when to use]
3. [tool_name]: [when to use]

When a user asks to:
- [scenario] → use [tool]
- [scenario] → use [tool]

Always:
- [guideline 1]
- [guideline 2]
```

## Section 8: Serialization

### Basic Pattern
```python
yaml_content = pipeline.dumps()

with open("pipelines/pipeline_name.yaml", "w") as f:
    f.write(yaml_content)
```

### Verification
```python
# Load and test
test_pipeline = Pipeline.loads(yaml_content)
result = test_pipeline.run(...)
```

## Section 9: Hayhooks Deployment

### Ensure you rebuild the pipelines when you change components to get the latest YAML file

```bash
./build_pipelines.sh

```
### Starting the Server
```bash
hayhooks run --pipelines-dir pipelines/
```

### Testing with Python
```python
response = requests.post(
    "http://localhost:1416/pipelines/pipeline_name",
    json={"search": {"query": "test"}}
)
result = response.json()
```

### Testing with curl
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:1416/pipelines/pipeline_name \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"search": {"query": "test"}}'
```

## Common Debugging Scenarios

### Issue: "Component not found"
**Check**: Component names in pipeline.connect() match the names used in add_component()

### Issue: "Output type mismatch"
**Check**: The output type of one component matches the input type of the next

### Issue: "No named_entities in metadata"
**Check**: NER extractor was properly initialized and warm_up() was called

### Issue: "Agent not using correct tool"
**Check**: Tool descriptions are clear and specific about when to use each tool

### Issue: "YAML serialization fails"
**Check**: All components can be serialized (custom components need proper decorators)
